
Citation Request
[1] Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012
http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

Description of the Data
The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix ‘t’ to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. and the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) – both using a low pass Butterworth filter.
The body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag).
A Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the ‘f’ to indicate frequency domain signals).
Description of abbreviations of measurements
1. leading t or f is based on time or frequency measurements.
2. Body = related to body movement.
3. Gravity = acceleration of gravity
4. Acc = accelerometer measurement
5. Gyro = gyroscopic measurements
6. Jerk = sudden movement acceleration
7. Mag = magnitude of movement
8. mean and SD are calculated for each subject for each activity for each mean and SD measurements.
The units given are g’s for the accelerometer and rad/sec for the gyro and g/sec and rad/sec/sec for the corresponding jerks.

Variable Descriptions
VariableDescriptionactivitiesThe activity performedsubjectSubject IDtbodyacc-mean-xMean time for acceleration of body for X directiontbodyacc-mean-yMean time for acceleration of body for Y directiontbodyacc-mean-zMean time for acceleration of body for Z directiontbodyacc-std-xStandard deviation of time for acceleration of body for X directiontbodyacc-std-yStandard deviation of time for acceleration of body for Y directiontbodyacc-std-zStandard deviation of time for acceleration of body for Z directiontgravityacc-mean-xMean time of acceleration of gravity for X directiontgravityacc-mean-yMean time of acceleration of gravity for Y directiontgravityacc-mean-zMean time of acceleration of gravity for Z directiontgravityacc-std-xStandard deviation of time of acceleration of gravity for X directiontgravityacc-std-yStandard deviation of time of acceleration of gravity for Y directiontgravityacc-std-zStandard deviation of time of acceleration of gravity for Z directiontbodyaccjerk-mean-xMean time of body acceleration jerk for X directiontbodyaccjerk-mean-yMean time of body acceleration jerk for Y directiontbodyaccjerk-mean-zMean time of body acceleration jerk for Z directiontbodyaccjerk-std-xStandard deviation of time of body acceleration jerk for X directiontbodyaccjerk-std-yStandard deviation of time of body acceleration jerk for Y directiontbodyaccjerk-std-zStandard deviation of time of body acceleration jerk for Z directiontbodygyro-mean-xMean body gyroscope measurement for X directiontbodygyro-mean-yMean body gyroscope measurement for Y directiontbodygyro-mean-zMean body gyroscope measurement for Z directiontbodygyro-std-xStandard deviation of body gyroscope measurement for X directiontbodygyro-std-yStandard deviation of body gyroscope measurement for Y directiontbodygyro-std-zStandard deviation of body gyroscope measurement for Z directiontbodygyrojerk-mean-xMean jerk signal of body for X directiontbodygyrojerk-mean-yMean jerk signal of body for Y directiontbodygyrojerk-mean-zMean jerk signal of body for Z directiontbodygyrojerk-std-xStandard deviation of jerk signal of body for X directiontbodygyrojerk-std-yStandard deviation of jerk signal of body for Y directiontbodygyrojerk-std-zStandard deviation of jerk signal of body for Z directiontbodyaccmag-meanMean magnitude of body Acctbodyaccmag-stdStandard deviation of magnitude of body Acctgravityaccmag-meanMean gravity acceleration magnitudetgravityaccmag-stdStandard deviation of gravity acceleration magnitudetbodyaccjerkmag-meanMean magnitude of body acceleration jerktbodyaccjerkmag-stdStandard deviation of magnitude of body acceleration jerktbodygyromag-meanMean magnitude of body gyroscope measurementtbodygyromag-stdStandard deviation of magnitude of body gyroscope measurementtbodygyrojerkmag-meanMean magnitude of body body gyroscope jerk measurementtbodygyrojerkmag-stdStandard deviation of magnitude of body body gyroscope jerk measurementfbodyacc-mean-xMean frequency of body acceleration for X directionfbodyacc-mean-yMean frequency of body acceleration for Y directionfbodyacc-mean-zMean frequency of body acceleration for Z directionfbodyacc-std-xStandard deviation of frequency of body acceleration for X directionfbodyacc-std-yStandard deviation of frequency of body acceleration for Y directionfbodyacc-std-zStandard deviation of frequency of body acceleration for Z directionfbodyaccjerk-mean-xMean frequency of body accerlation jerk for X directionfbodyaccjerk-mean-yMean frequency of body accerlation jerk for Y directionfbodyaccjerk-mean-zMean frequency of body accerlation jerk for Z directionfbodyaccjerk-std-xStandard deviation frequency of body accerlation jerk for X directionfbodyaccjerk-std-yStandard deviation frequency of body accerlation jerk for Y directionfbodyaccjerk-std-zStandard deviation frequency of body accerlation jerk for Z directionfbodygyro-mean-xMean frequency of body gyroscope measurement for X directionfbodygyro-mean-yMean frequency of body gyroscope measurement for Y directionfbodygyro-mean-zMean frequency of body gyroscope measurement for Z directionfbodygyro-std-xStandard deviation frequency of body gyroscope measurement for X directionfbodygyro-std-yStandard deviation frequency of body gyroscope measurement for Y directionfbodygyro-std-zStandard deviation frequency of body gyroscope measurement for Z directionfbodyaccmag-meanMean frequency of body acceleration magnitudefbodyaccmag-stdStandard deviation of frequency of body acceleration magnitudefbodybodyaccjerkmag-meanMean frequency of body acceleration jerk magnitudefbodybodyaccjerkmag-stdStandard deviation of frequency of body acceleration jerk magnitudefbodybodygyromag-meanMean frequency of magnitude of body gyroscope measurementfbodybodygyromag-stdStandard deviation of frequency of magnitude of body gyroscope measurementfbodybodygyrojerkmag-meanMean frequency of magnitude of body gyroscope jerk measurementfbodybodygyrojerkmag-stdStandard deviation frequency of magnitude of body gyroscope jerk measurement



